content/wiki/documentation/x200.md, before:

---
title: 'x200'
---

# x200

Things about the ThinkPad x200.

## Touching the BIOS chip

Before doing anything on the BIOS chip (updating, flashing, erasing, backuping), the system needs to be booted in relaxed mode.  
For that, when on the GRUB option to boot, do the `e` key and add `iomem=relaxed` at the end of the line beginning with `linux`.  
After that, you can do `CTRL+x` to boot normally.

## Backuping the BIOS ROM

To backup the BIOS ROM, `flashrom` can be used:
```
flasrom -p internal -r mybackup.rom -c MX25L6405D
```
You can now securely backup the `mybackup.rom` or re-flash it if needed.

## Updating

Updating the CoreBoot version is very simple.

First, go on the [official mirror for images](http://mirror.linux.ro/libreboot/stable/) and download the tar file located in the `/roms/` directory (name of the file should have `x200_8mb` in it).  
You will then see plenty of ROMs, usually, `grub_x200_8mb_libgfxinit_corebootfb_usqwerty.rom` is the right one.

To update the `grub.conf` in it, `cbfstool` can be used:
```
cbfstool grub_x200_8mb_libgfxinit_corebootfb_usqwerty.rom print
cbfstool grub_x200_8mb_libgfxinit_corebootfb_usqwerty.rom extract grub.cfg -f grub.cfg
cbfstool grub_x200_8mb_libgfxinit_corebootfb_usqwerty.rom remove -n grub.cfg
cbfstool grub_x200_8mb_libgfxinit_corebootfb_usqwerty.rom add -n grub.cfg -f grub.cfg -t raw
```

> /!\ It is recommended to first test your configs in `grubtest.cfg` before anything else.  
> You can access the `grubtest.cfg` in the main GRUB screen.

After updating the GRUB config, you can just flash the ROM:
```
flashrom -p internal grub_x200_8mb_libgfxinit_corebootfb_usqwerty.rom -c MX25L6405D
```

Congrats, your install is now up-to-date.

## Upgrades

Current upgrades of my particular unit:

 - Latest version of the open-source [LibreBoot](https://libreboot.org) BIOS replacement
 - 8GB of RAM installed
 - Default hard drive replaced by a 1TB Western Digital Green 2.5" SSD

Commit message:

documentation/x200: add more documentation and corrections

content/wiki/documentation/x200.md, after:

---
title: 'x200'
---

# x200

Things about the ThinkPad x200.

## Touching the BIOS chip

Before doing anything on the BIOS chip (updating, flashing, erasing, backuping), the system needs to be booted in relaxed mode.  
For that, when on the GRUB option to boot, do the `e` key and add `iomem=relaxed` at the end of the line beginning with `linux`.  
After that, you can do `CTRL+x` to boot normally.

## Backuping the BIOS ROM

To backup the BIOS ROM, `flashrom` can be used:
```
flasrom -p internal -r mybackup.rom -c MX25L6405D
```
You can now securely backup the `mybackup.rom` or re-flash it if needed.

## Updating

Updating the CoreBoot version is very simple.

First, go on the [official mirror for images](http://mirror.linux.ro/libreboot/stable/) and download the tar file located in the `/roms/` directory (name of the file should have `x200_8mb` in it).  
You will then see plenty of ROMs, usually, `grub_x200_8mb_libgfxinit_corebootfb_usqwerty.rom` is the right one.

To update the `grub.conf` in it, `cbfstool` can be used:
```
cbfstool grub_x200_8mb_libgfxinit_corebootfb_usqwerty.rom print
cbfstool grub_x200_8mb_libgfxinit_corebootfb_usqwerty.rom extract -n grub.cfg -f grub.cfg
cbfstool grub_x200_8mb_libgfxinit_corebootfb_usqwerty.rom remove -n grub.cfg
cbfstool grub_x200_8mb_libgfxinit_corebootfb_usqwerty.rom add -n grub.cfg -f grub.cfg -t raw
```

> /!\ It is recommended to first test your configs in `grubtest.cfg` before anything else.  
> You can access the `grubtest.cfg` in the main GRUB screen.

After updating the GRUB config, you can just flash the ROM:
```
flashrom -p internal -w grub_x200_8mb_libgfxinit_corebootfb_usqwerty.rom -c MX25L6405D
```

Congrats, your install is now up-to-date.

## Upgrades

Current upgrades of my particular unit:

 - Latest version of the open-source [LibreBoot](https://libreboot.org) BIOS replacement
 - 8GB of RAM installed
 - Default hard drive replaced by a 1TB Western Digital Green 2.5" SSD

## Changing the splash image

For a x200, the image must be: 1280x800 (16:10).

To change it, do the same as when changing the grub config:
```
cbfstool grub_x200_8mb_libgfxinit_corebootfb_usqwerty.rom print
cbfstool grub_x200_8mb_libgfxinit_corebootfb_usqwerty.rom extract -n background.png -f background.png
```

Now, use `gimp` or any other editor to change the contents of the background image.

After editing the image, you can put the new one into the ROM:
```
cbfstool grub_x200_8mb_libgfxinit_corebootfb_usqwerty.rom remove -n background.png
cbfstool grub_x200_8mb_libgfxinit_corebootfb_usqwerty.rom add -n background.png -f background.png -t raw
```

And then flash the image:
```
flashrom -p internal -w grub_x200_8mb_libgfxinit_corebootfb_usqwerty.rom -c MX25L6405D
```

> /!\ Note: check that the ROM file is indeed 8MB, no more, no less.

And done!
