content/wiki/misc/pics.md, before:

---
title: "Pictures"
---

# Pictures

Here are random pictures I took over time.  
Optimized thumbnail shown, click to show regular image.  
All the pictures are under the Creative Commons BY-SA 4.0 license (Jae Lo Presti).


|    |    |
| -- | -- |
| [![The Helsinki city center with electric boxes in the center that spell the word "forgive"](https://bm.777.tf/wb/pics/forgive-optim-small.jpg)](https://bm.777.tf/wb/pics/forgive.jpg) | [![The sky with white clouds and the sun reflecting in the middle](https://bm.777.tf/wb/pics/clouds-optim-small.jpg)](https://bm.777.tf/wb/pics/clouds.jpg) |
| [![A Commodore 64 microcomputer](https://bm.777.tf/wb/pics/commodore-optim-small.jpg)](https://bm.777.tf/wb/pics/commodore.jpg) | [![A cubic building, all made in glass](https://bm.777.tf/wb/pics/cubic-optim-small.jpg)](https://bm.777.tf/wb/pics/cubic.jpg) |
| [![A tunnel covered in art in night time](https://bm.777.tf/wb/pics/nighttime-optim-small.jpg)](https://bm.777.tf/wb/pics/nighttime.jpg) | [![Red houses near a water canal](https://bm.777.tf/wb/pics/redhouse-optim-small.jpg)](https://bm.777.tf/wb/pics/redhouse.jpg) |
| [![A runnenberg cake](https://bm.777.tf/wb/pics/runnenberg-optim-small.jpg)](https://bm.777.tf/wb/pics/runnenberg.jpg) | [![A distant city surrounded with trees and water in the middle](https://bm.777.tf/wb/pics/distance-optim-small.jpg)](https://bm.777.tf/wb/pics/distance.jpg) |

<style>
table thead {
    display:none
}
</style>

Commit message:

misc/pics: add link to bigger pic repo

content/wiki/misc/pics.md, after:

---
title: "Pictures"
---

# Pictures

Here are random pictures I took over time.  
Optimized thumbnail shown, click to show regular image.  
All the pictures are under the Creative Commons BY-SA 4.0 license (Jae Lo Presti).

You can see more pics (still under the same license) on [the dedicated platform (is currently lacking accessibility)](https://pix.777.tf).


|    |    |
| -- | -- |
| [![The Helsinki city center with electric boxes in the center that spell the word "forgive"](https://bm.777.tf/wb/pics/forgive-optim-small.jpg)](https://bm.777.tf/wb/pics/forgive.jpg) | [![The sky with white clouds and the sun reflecting in the middle](https://bm.777.tf/wb/pics/clouds-optim-small.jpg)](https://bm.777.tf/wb/pics/clouds.jpg) |
| [![A Commodore 64 microcomputer](https://bm.777.tf/wb/pics/commodore-optim-small.jpg)](https://bm.777.tf/wb/pics/commodore.jpg) | [![A cubic building, all made in glass](https://bm.777.tf/wb/pics/cubic-optim-small.jpg)](https://bm.777.tf/wb/pics/cubic.jpg) |
| [![A tunnel covered in art in night time](https://bm.777.tf/wb/pics/nighttime-optim-small.jpg)](https://bm.777.tf/wb/pics/nighttime.jpg) | [![Red houses near a water canal](https://bm.777.tf/wb/pics/redhouse-optim-small.jpg)](https://bm.777.tf/wb/pics/redhouse.jpg) |
| [![A runnenberg cake](https://bm.777.tf/wb/pics/runnenberg-optim-small.jpg)](https://bm.777.tf/wb/pics/runnenberg.jpg) | [![A distant city surrounded with trees and water in the middle](https://bm.777.tf/wb/pics/distance-optim-small.jpg)](https://bm.777.tf/wb/pics/distance.jpg) |

<style>
table thead {
    display:none
}
</style>
