content/wiki/resonite/common-comp.md, before:

---
title: "Common components"
description: "Common Resonite components."
---

# Common components

This page describes how to use very common components.

[Go back to index.](/wiki/resonite/).

${toc}

## ValueUserOverride

The component `ValueUserOverride<T>` can be found in `Transform`->`Drivers` and is used to override a value locally for a user.

It takes a few options in to work:

- `Target` - Which value you with to locally override
- `PersistentOverrides` - When checked, the overrides will persist after saving the map or object in question
- `Default` - Sets the default value for someone that doesn't have an override
- `CreateOverrideOnWrite` - Makes it so when someone changes the value, an override will be created automatically for them

Overrides may also be created manually by referencing a userid (`U-<snowflake ID>`) and a value.

## ValueCopy

The component `ValueCopy<T>` can be found in `Transform`->`Drivers` and is used to copy a value from a field to another.

It takes in a few options:

- `Source` - The source from which the value is copied
- `Destination` - Where to copy the value
- `WriteBack` - When checked, it means the target can write back its value to the source

Note that it is possible to automatically create those by grabbing a field, dropping it onto another and selecting the "Drive" option in the context menu that appears.

## SmoothValue

The component `SmoothValue<T>` can be found in `Transform`->`Drivers` and is used to make a numerical value transition smoothly with a defined speed.

It takes a few options:

- `TargetValue` - The value you want it to transition to
- `Speed` - The speed you want to transition to be at
- `WriteBack` - Allows the target of the `SmoothValue<T>` to write its value back into the `TargetValue`
- `Value` - The target value you need to transition

![Demonstration of the SmoothValue component by setting some values and resetting them.](https://i.j4.lc/ShareX/2023/12/Resonite_Ja1j4OWjjo.gif)

Commit message:

resonite: add redirect to official wiki

content/wiki/resonite/common-comp.md, after:

---
title: "Common components"
description: "Common Resonite components."
---

# Common components

## Hey! The [official Resonite wiki is out](https://wiki.resonite.com). It means this is now unmaintained.


This page describes how to use very common components.

[Go back to index.](/wiki/resonite/).

${toc}

## ValueUserOverride

The component `ValueUserOverride<T>` can be found in `Transform`->`Drivers` and is used to override a value locally for a user.

It takes a few options in to work:

- `Target` - Which value you with to locally override
- `PersistentOverrides` - When checked, the overrides will persist after saving the map or object in question
- `Default` - Sets the default value for someone that doesn't have an override
- `CreateOverrideOnWrite` - Makes it so when someone changes the value, an override will be created automatically for them

Overrides may also be created manually by referencing a userid (`U-<snowflake ID>`) and a value.

## ValueCopy

The component `ValueCopy<T>` can be found in `Transform`->`Drivers` and is used to copy a value from a field to another.

It takes in a few options:

- `Source` - The source from which the value is copied
- `Destination` - Where to copy the value
- `WriteBack` - When checked, it means the target can write back its value to the source

Note that it is possible to automatically create those by grabbing a field, dropping it onto another and selecting the "Drive" option in the context menu that appears.

## SmoothValue

The component `SmoothValue<T>` can be found in `Transform`->`Drivers` and is used to make a numerical value transition smoothly with a defined speed.

It takes a few options:

- `TargetValue` - The value you want it to transition to
- `Speed` - The speed you want to transition to be at
- `WriteBack` - Allows the target of the `SmoothValue<T>` to write its value back into the `TargetValue`
- `Value` - The target value you need to transition

![Demonstration of the SmoothValue component by setting some values and resetting them.](https://i.j4.lc/ShareX/2023/12/Resonite_Ja1j4OWjjo.gif)
