content/wiki/resonite/keybinds.md, before:

---
title: "Keybinds"
description: "Resonite keybinds."
---

# Keybinds

Resonite has a bunch of keybinds available in desktop mode, here is most of them.

[Go back to index.](/wiki/resonite/).

${toc}

For those who don't know:

- LMB - Left Mouse Button (left click)
- RMB - Right Mouse Button (right click)
- SCRW - Scroll Wheel

## Basic controls

- F5 - Enables the third person camera
- F6 - Enables the freeform camera
  - To control it, press CTRL, RMB and use WASD as usual
- F8 - Switches between VR and Desktop mode
  - For this to work, you need to launch the game in VR mode first
- SHIFT+P or SHIFT+PrintSCR - Take an instant screenshot
- CTRL+P or SHIFT+PrintSCR - Take a screenshot with timer
- CTRL+C - Copy
- CTRL+V - Paste
- CTRL+Z - Undo
- CTRL+Y - Redo
- CTRL+TAB - Cycle through your open sessions
- Z - Toggle slow movement

## Manipulating objects

- DEL or CTRL+SHIFT+D (while holding an object) - Deletes the object
- CTRL+D (while holding an object) - Duplicates the object
- CTRL+LBM - Focus on an UIX panel (useful for inspectors)
  - CTRL+LMB on empty space or F5 - Focus out
- I (while having a dev tooltip equipped) - Opens an inspector
- CTRL+F - Focus on the selected object (you will need to select one beforehand)
  - ALT+RMB - Rotates around the focused object
  - ALT+RMB+SCRW - Modify the zoom level on the focused object

## Other controls

- M - Mutes you
- V - Push-to-talk (when muted)
- SHIFT + Double tap ESC or CTRL+SHIFT+Q - Emergency world exit
- F2 - Toggle Edit Mode
- CTRL+I - Opens the legacy inventory

Commit message:

resonite: add redirect to official wiki

content/wiki/resonite/keybinds.md, after:

---
title: "Keybinds"
description: "Resonite keybinds."
---

# Keybinds

## Hey! The [official Resonite wiki is out](https://wiki.resonite.com). It means this is now unmaintained.


Resonite has a bunch of keybinds available in desktop mode, here is most of them.

[Go back to index.](/wiki/resonite/).

${toc}

For those who don't know:

- LMB - Left Mouse Button (left click)
- RMB - Right Mouse Button (right click)
- SCRW - Scroll Wheel

## Basic controls

- F5 - Enables the third person camera
- F6 - Enables the freeform camera
  - To control it, press CTRL, RMB and use WASD as usual
- F8 - Switches between VR and Desktop mode
  - For this to work, you need to launch the game in VR mode first
- SHIFT+P or SHIFT+PrintSCR - Take an instant screenshot
- CTRL+P or SHIFT+PrintSCR - Take a screenshot with timer
- CTRL+C - Copy
- CTRL+V - Paste
- CTRL+Z - Undo
- CTRL+Y - Redo
- CTRL+TAB - Cycle through your open sessions
- Z - Toggle slow movement

## Manipulating objects

- DEL or CTRL+SHIFT+D (while holding an object) - Deletes the object
- CTRL+D (while holding an object) - Duplicates the object
- CTRL+LBM - Focus on an UIX panel (useful for inspectors)
  - CTRL+LMB on empty space or F5 - Focus out
- I (while having a dev tooltip equipped) - Opens an inspector
- CTRL+F - Focus on the selected object (you will need to select one beforehand)
  - ALT+RMB - Rotates around the focused object
  - ALT+RMB+SCRW - Modify the zoom level on the focused object

## Other controls

- M - Mutes you
- V - Push-to-talk (when muted)
- SHIFT + Double tap ESC or CTRL+SHIFT+Q - Emergency world exit
- F2 - Toggle Edit Mode
- CTRL+I - Opens the legacy inventory
