content/wiki/resonite/patreon.md, before:

---
title: "Patreon Tiers"
description: "Patreon Tiers and rewards."
---

# Patreon tiers

This page describes all the Patreon tiers and rewards available on the [Resonite Patreon](https://patreon.com/Resonite), and is meant to be a quick comparison matrix.  
All prices are in Euros (EUR) per month and without VAT; final prices may vary depending on local currency.

| Tier        | Price | Storage Space | Headless | Exit Messages | 2D Badge | 3D Badge | Groups | Can share storage |
| ----------- | ----- | ------------- | -------- | ------------- | -------- | -------- | ------ | ----------------- |
| Wanderer    | 1€    | 5GB           | No       | 0             | No       | No       | 0      | No                |
| Explorer    | 5€    | 25GB          | No       | 0             | No       | No       | 0      | No                |
| Discoverer  | 10€   | 50GB          | Yes      | 0             | Yes      | No       | 0      | No                |
| Pathfinder  | 14.5€ | 75GB          | Yes      | 1             | Yes      | No       | 0      | No                |
| Trailblazer | 19.5€ | 100GB         | Yes      | 1             | Yes      | Yes      | 1      | No                |
| Pioneer     | 39€   | 200GB         | Yes      | 1             | Yes      | Yes      | 1      | No                |
| Builder     | 75.5€ | 500GB         | Yes      | 2             | Yes      | Yes      | 2      | Yes               |
| Crafter     | 145€  | 1TB           | Yes      | 2             | Yes      | Yes      | 3      | Yes               |
| Artisan     | 290€  | 2TB           | Yes      | 3             | Yes      | Yes      | 3      | Yes               |

In order to get your benefits make sure:

- The e-mail address is the same on Patreon and Resonite (if not, you can add your Patreon e-mail as an alternative e-mail on your Resonite account via `/addAlternativeEmail <e-mail>`)
- See the [Resonite Bot documentation](/wiki/resonite/bot) to see the commands you can use

At the moment, Patreon is the only way to receive benefits, though issue [#497](https://github.com/Yellow-Dog-Man/Resonite-Issues/issues/497) is exploring alternatives to Patreon.

Commit message:

resonite: add redirect to official wiki

content/wiki/resonite/patreon.md, after:

---
title: "Patreon Tiers"
description: "Patreon Tiers and rewards."
---

# Patreon tiers

## Hey! The [official Resonite wiki is out](https://wiki.resonite.com). It means this is now unmaintained.


This page describes all the Patreon tiers and rewards available on the [Resonite Patreon](https://patreon.com/Resonite), and is meant to be a quick comparison matrix.  
All prices are in Euros (EUR) per month and without VAT; final prices may vary depending on local currency.

| Tier        | Price | Storage Space | Headless | Exit Messages | 2D Badge | 3D Badge | Groups | Can share storage |
| ----------- | ----- | ------------- | -------- | ------------- | -------- | -------- | ------ | ----------------- |
| Wanderer    | 1€    | 5GB           | No       | 0             | No       | No       | 0      | No                |
| Explorer    | 5€    | 25GB          | No       | 0             | No       | No       | 0      | No                |
| Discoverer  | 10€   | 50GB          | Yes      | 0             | Yes      | No       | 0      | No                |
| Pathfinder  | 14.5€ | 75GB          | Yes      | 1             | Yes      | No       | 0      | No                |
| Trailblazer | 19.5€ | 100GB         | Yes      | 1             | Yes      | Yes      | 1      | No                |
| Pioneer     | 39€   | 200GB         | Yes      | 1             | Yes      | Yes      | 1      | No                |
| Builder     | 75.5€ | 500GB         | Yes      | 2             | Yes      | Yes      | 2      | Yes               |
| Crafter     | 145€  | 1TB           | Yes      | 2             | Yes      | Yes      | 3      | Yes               |
| Artisan     | 290€  | 2TB           | Yes      | 3             | Yes      | Yes      | 3      | Yes               |

In order to get your benefits make sure:

- The e-mail address is the same on Patreon and Resonite (if not, you can add your Patreon e-mail as an alternative e-mail on your Resonite account via `/addAlternativeEmail <e-mail>`)
- See the [Resonite Bot documentation](/wiki/resonite/bot) to see the commands you can use

At the moment, Patreon is the only way to receive benefits, though issue [#497](https://github.com/Yellow-Dog-Man/Resonite-Issues/issues/497) is exploring alternatives to Patreon.
