content/pages/as211696.md, before:

---
title: "AS211696"
menus: ["main"]
---

# AS211696

This page is for stuff about my personal AS, [AS211696](https://www.peeringdb.com/asn/211696). The following prefixes are announced:

 - 2001:67c:2724::/48
 - 2a0e:8f02:f01f::/48
 - 2a12:4946:9900::/40

All prefixes are valid ROA and IRR and are announced using the [BIRD Internet Router Daemon](https://bird.network.cz/).

Current upstreams are (updated every 24h):

{{< bgpUpstreams >}}

The <span class="il">2a0e:8f02:f01f::/48</span> prefix is now deprecated and used for the internal infrastructure and was replaced with <span class="il">2001:67c:2724::/48</span> (for public servers & services; for instance this website).

The <span class="il">2a12:4946:9900::/40</span> prefix is used for user tunnels (registrations & requests closed at the moment).

Current exchange points:

{{< bgpIx >}}

Contact info is:

 - [abuse@as211696.net](mailto:abuse@as211696.net) - Abuse report
 - [noc@as211696.net](noc@as211696.net) - NOC
 - [@jae:777.tf](matrix:u/jae:777.tf) - Instant Matrix support

Commit message:

as211696: add death of project

content/pages/as211696.md, after:

---
title: "AS211696"
menus: ["main"]
---

# AS211696

This page serves as an archive for something I did for some years.  
This project was originally started as a way for me to learn even more about networking, and it served its purpose.

Thanks to everybody that helped me and made that experience worthwhile!

## Archive content

This page is for stuff about my personal AS, [AS211696](https://www.peeringdb.com/asn/211696). The following prefixes are announced:

 - 2001:67c:2724::/48
 - 2a0e:8f02:f01f::/48
 - 2a12:4946:9900::/40

All prefixes are valid ROA and IRR and are announced using the [BIRD Internet Router Daemon](https://bird.network.cz/).

Current upstreams are (updated every 24h):

{{< bgpUpstreams >}}

The <span class="il">2a0e:8f02:f01f::/48</span> prefix is now deprecated and used for the internal infrastructure and was replaced with <span class="il">2001:67c:2724::/48</span> (for public servers & services; for instance this website).

The <span class="il">2a12:4946:9900::/40</span> prefix is used for user tunnels (registrations & requests closed at the moment).

Current exchange points:

{{< bgpIx >}}

Contact info is:

 - [abuse@as211696.net](mailto:abuse@as211696.net) - Abuse report
 - [noc@as211696.net](noc@as211696.net) - NOC
 - [@jae:777.tf](matrix:u/jae:777.tf) - Instant Matrix support
